pimxml
================

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The `pimxml` package facilitates the importation of ‘Excel’ XML reports
generated by PIMsoft into R environments. These reports often present
challenges due to inconsistencies in data structure, which pimxml
efficiently addresses, simplifying the data integration process.

## Prerequisites

This package is specifically designed for use with PIMsoft version
1.5.8.2090555 (64-bit) developed by Perimed AB. It assumes that the XML
files are generated using the built-in report function with the
following options selected: “Recording info”, “Calculations”, “Mean
perfusion”, and “Percent change per ROI”. Furthermore, ROIs must be
named “ACH”, “SNP”, and “ref”, and TOIs must include “rest”, “ACHmax”,
and “SNPmax”.

## Installation

`pimxml` can be installed directly from GitHub using the `devtools`
package. If you do not have `devtools` installed, you can install it
using the command `install.packages("devtools")`. Then, install `pimxml`
using:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("Widaeus/pimxml")
```

## Usage

The `pimxml` package includes two primary functions: `xml_to_df` and
`folder_to_df`.

`xml_to_df`: This function accepts a URL pointing to an XML file that
meets the specified prerequisites and transforms it into a tidy data
frame consisting of one row per observation and multiple relevant
columns.

`folder_to_df`: This function processes all XML files in a specified
folder, applying `xml_to_df` to each file and compiling the results into
a single data frame by binding the rows together.

These functions streamline the process of converting complex XML reports
into manageable R data frames, significantly easing the data analysis
workflow.
